well it's just past 0900 GMT that's
midday in Gaza amid the destruction fear
and the Bloodshed caused by Israel's
bombardment its Army tells 1.1 million
Palestinians in Northern Gaza to
evacuate to the South within 24 hours
that includes un staff hundreds of
thousands of people Sheltering in un
schools and Clinics and Palestinian
refugees in some of the largest camps in
Gaza un Aid workers say the relocation
of so many people is
possible the Israeli military says it
will quote operate significantly against
Hamas positions in the coming days but
the arm group has responded by calling
on Palestinians to stay in their homes
Israel has killed more than 1500
Palestinians since Saturday when Hamas
launched a military offensive Hamas says
those bombardments have killed 13 people
including foreigners who they had
captured in Israel during Saturday's
operation the Israeli Army says it's
dropped 6,000 bombs on Gaza since the
war with Hamas began and more keep
falling every hour more than 423,000
Palestinians that's nearly 20% of gaza's
population have now been forced from
their
homes joining us on the phone from KH UN
in Gaza is our correspondent yumna eled
yumna you are where the Israelis say
that 1.1 million Palestinians in Gaza
should head to to get out of Gaza City
ahead of a possible military in of some
sort talk us through the Journey that
you've had to
make yes Rob well me and my family uh
with other neighbors in our building uh
we almost all the the square of where we
lived um moved to hanun now the problem
is that uh the cars were really afraid
to go all the way from Gaza City to Han
unit it's It's a Long Way Drive and the
streets are not safe most of the streets
are bombarded so we have to take
different grots we have to look for the
base for the best uh uh streets to to
drive into until we got here to kanun
now the problem is Rob as much as that
uh Journey was was scary we did take it
because at the same time we don't want
to risk that we stay in Gaza City under
uh heavy and intensive bombardment more
than what we have already been going
through the past days uh so we we did
what we could uh but at the same time
there's thousands thousands hundreds of
thousands now that are trapped in Goda C
they want to come to hunit but there is
no place for them now considering that
hunit has already been under heavy
bombardment uh uh Rafa has been under
heavy bombardment all these people uh
from around around the the two
governments have also come to kanun and
there's no places the people who are
also in the in these two governments
themselves who have lost their homes who
have their homes and neighborhoods
bombarded already had moved into un and
un fa facilities and schools and and and
shelters whatever they could so now
there is an enormous number of people
who are in these places over the
capacity much more over the capacity
than what these uh places can take and
at the same time there are thousands
more who are calling to find places to
come into now I'm talking literally Rob
that every single home in of the
residential homes that are still
available in 10 units are hosting
families about two or three families
from Gaza so the numbers are like in
full capacity in the homes of the people
the UN shelters the UN schools in the in
in kanun govern and people are still yet
calling to find places and they can't
find places the problem is we're talking
about a
million1 uh uh 100,000 people who are
supposed to evacuate that is extremely
impossible what are the
300,000 people over 300,000 people that
are already in Gaza in unor what schools
going to do that number alone where is
it going to go the people that are
shipa hospital or in gazda uh City
hospitals where are they going how are
they going to leave those injured those
people who are in in in in in in really
in really uh difficult situations and
they can't move and we're talking about
a place that doesn't have ambulances
doesn't have uh uh transportation for
evacuation for families or people this
is how the situation is yumna thank you
very much indeed uh that's yumna ask to
talking to us from K Unice I want to go
to Dr Med abas he's director general of
gaza's Ministry of Health he's joining
us on the phone from Gaza thank you very
much indeed for being with us can you
give us an indication of the situation
at the hospital where you are at the
moment well they have collapsing the
hospitals now are not able to operate
anymore we have no electricity we have
no enough medications and the angel
people are lying on the ground in the
emergency rooms and waiting before the
operation rooms in fact we have
mentioned that those civilians have
being suffering from the beginning of
this crisis until now the situation is
worsening every moment there are new
every moment there are new injured and
new killed Palestinians in fact if this
situation continues like this without
any humanitarian Corridor it means that
we hundreds of people will be lost every
day this is a humanitarian disaster pure
humanitarian disaster and I think the
only solution is stop this war at once
and immediately bring in Gaza health
professionals to assess us and to bring
Hospital fields and field hospitals and
to bring medication medical supply and
immediately there should be some
electricity by any means to support
these hospitals beside of course having
the portable water for the patients for
the hospitals and for the the community
in Gaza thre now when we talk about
those who left their houses and became
become displaced in schools they are now
more than 400,000 I don't know how much
and we are hearing now about about the
displacement of 1. 1 million
Palestinians I mean what happens now is
a disaster uring in front of the
International Community and there is no
no one intervening to
solve so let me ask you about Israel's
demand that 1.1 million Palestinians
leave Gaza City and move South clearly
you have hospitals and medical centers
which are full of people needing
treatment from a logistical point of
view is that something that is possible
can you actually move these people serve
to get them to some degree of
safety no there's no way to move them
because because first of all they left
their their country on the 1948 and then
they left it in the
197 and now and and now what the hell
should the Palestinian Go I mean there
is no room left for the Palestinian to
live in it seems that this genocide
occurring now is aiming to eradicate all
cians in Palestine this is the only goal
which which we can see now because the
the victims of this conflict are just
civilians among my people in Palestine
they are just dying they're killing
children women elderly people and people
and being are in their house while they
are unated so let me ask you this in the
event that it becomes necessary for U
people in Gaza to leave the city and
move South possibly because of military
action uh from the Israelis we don't
know what that what form that might take
what are you and your staff going to
do we would remain our hospitals no no
way I mean no way we not leave our
patients we not leave our ministry we
not leave those those victims we will
never ever leave them of course we are
staying with them no
way with regard to the kind of
conditions that you're operating in you
mentioned earlier that you had no power
you have no portable water if I
understand it correctly what help are
you able to provide to those that you're
treating at the moment we're offering
life saving Services now and we are
cooperating with ngos all the pales ngos
which are still remaining in the health
sector and guys a STP to referring them
to those cases as much as we can waiting
and hoping that there will be
humanitarian C immediately to evacuate
those seriously injured to any other
country like Egypt or
Jordan Dr medad abas we appreciate that
you are very busy at the moment as of
course are your staff director general
of gaza's Ministry of Health thank you
very much
indeed